Few detailed clinico-pathological correlations of Parkinson's disease have been published. The pathological findings in 100 patients diagnosed prospectively by a group ofconsultant neurologists as having idiopathic Parkinson's disease are reported. Seventy six had nigral Lewy bodies, and in all of these Lewy bodies were also found in the cerebral cortex. In 24 cases without Lewy bodies, diagnoses included progressive supranuclear palsy, multiple system atrophy, Alzheimer's disease, Alzheimer-type pathology, and basal ganglia vascular disease.The retrospective application ofrecommended diagnostic criteria improved the diagnostic accuracy to 82%. These observations call into question current concepts ofParkinson's disease as a single distinct morbid entity. Parkinson's Disease Society Brain Bank, Institute of Neurology, 1 Wakefield Street, LondonWClN IPJ A J Hughes S E Daniel L Kilford A J Lees Correspondence to: Dr S E Daniel Received 14 September 1990 and in revised form 13 May 1991. Accepted 25 June 1991 Necropsy studies of patients with Parkinson's syndrome show that idiopathic Parkinson's disease (IPD) comprises between 60 and 75% of cases.' 2 In life most of these are correctly diagnosed, but despite the application of stringent diagnostic criteria3 misdiagnoses do occur, with some patients thought clinically to have IPD turning out to have other illnesses. 1 2 4 Conversely, in other patients with atypical clinical pictures the diagnosis ofIPD is established only after death.5 6 There are few clinico-pathological studies from which to assess the accuracy of clinical diagnosis but it is estimated at around 80%.2 7 Multiple system atrophy, progressive supranuclear palsy, Alzheimer's disease, and cerebrovascular pathology are thought to make up most misdiagnoses.'24 The Parkinson's Disease Society Brain Bank (PDSBB) in London receives donor tissue from parkinsonian patients, most of whom have been prospectively examined annually by a neurologist. To assess the accuracy of clinical diagnosis we examined the neuropathology in 100 patients who were thought to have IPD. For patients in whom the diagnosis was histologically substantiated the clinical variables were correlated with the pathological findings. Materials and methods We studies 100 consecutive cases with clinically diagnosed IPD. The brains were collected over a three year period between June 1987 and August 1990 from all over the United Kingdom. Seventy cases were registered donors and had been prospectively assessed annually by neurologists associated with the PDSBB. All other cases had been diagnosed by consultant neurologists or geriatricians as having IPD. Hospital and consultant case notes were reviewed to supplement clinical information. Age at onset of illness, disease duration, initial response to levodopa, and severity of disease at death, as measured by the Hoehn and Yahr score,8 were correlated with the pathological findings. Half brains fixed in 10% neutral formalin were available for examination by standard neuropathological methods. Tissue for paraffin embedding was taken from the cerebral cortex, striatumi, midbrain, pons, and medulla. In most cases all areas of cortex (frontal, temporal, parietal, occipital) and the cerebellum (hemisphere and vermis) were examined. Sections were stained with haematoxylin-eosin (HE), luxol fast blue cresyl-violet, and modified Bielschowsky silver impregnation. On selected regions, immunocytochemistry was performed with biotin-streptavidin method and antibody to ubiquitin (Dako, polyclonal 1:400). The diagnosis ofIPD was based on finding a clear depletion of brain stem pigmented neurones with Lewy bodies in some of the remaining nerve cells.9 In all cases where Lewy bodies were difficult to find, at least three HE stained 7,u sections of midbrain were examined. In each section there were usually more than 150 pigmented nigral neurones. The cerebral cortex was carefully screened for intraneuronal Lewy bodies with HE stained sections. In most cases the frontal anterior cingulate gyrus was used, however, in a few cases only the parahippocampal gyrus was available. Lewy bodies were considered to be found easily if identified within 5 minutes' inspection. Sections were stained with anti-ubiquitin if Lewy bodies had not been identified after 10 minutes' observation time. Nerve cell loss in the substantia nigra and the locus coeruleus was assessed by two independent observers with a 4 point (1 = mild, 4 = severe) grading system, which was based on comparison with age-matched controls. The presence of Lewy bodies in the locus coeruleus and dorsal vagal nucleus was recorded for each case. In cases lacking the pathological changes of IPD, diagnoses were established by accepted neuropathological criteria. The criteria proposed by Khachaturianl' were used to identify cases in which neocortical senile plaques were numerous. This group was sub-divided into 181 group.bmj.com on April 2, 2017 Published by http://jnnp.bmj.com/ Downloaded from